# PowerShell Debugging
There are plenty of ways to debug in most languages, from code-based write/echo statements, to logging, to using the PowerShell debugger, to third party debuggers that put a UI on the debugging party.

Some general ways to debug:
- Code-based write/echo statements: quick and dirty, handy for lightweight/informational debug kind of statements. These are a mainstay in some other languages, but can lead to slower development / troubleshooting efforts as we exert energy trying to get the write statements to be useful/helpful. If there is something more involved than just a quick echo, we are often far better suited using the PowerShell debugger
- Logging: a step beyond console output, logging is good for having a historical view of what happened during the execution of a script / program. But, as with echoing things to the console, logging for debugging might be less effective / efficient than we could be just getting straight to the goods via the PowerShell debugger
- PowerShell debugger: available in all versions of PowerShell, this is the most direct and straightforward way to get to the exact point of code execution at which you want to look, with which you want to interact, and that you want to debug. It is accessible in the same PowerShell session with which you are already familiar, and requires no additional setup/software. This, like any proper debugger, allows you to get into the exact state of the running code at the moment you desire, with all variables and state available for inspection.  There is a touch of learning required to get comfortable with the debugger, but [opinion] the small investment makes for the most effective debugging available.
- Other UIs on the PowerShell debugger: For when you are comfortable with concepts of the debugger, and would like an UI for variable "watches" and the callstack (instead of inspecting such things from the command line), you might consider other tools that put a GUI on the debugger, like the premiere (and open source and cross-platform  and fully extensible and cost-free) code editing environment/tool [VisualStudio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Such tools already document their debugging capabilities -- see the corresponding docs for the given tool (like the [Debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) section of the VisualStudio Code [User Guide](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics))

Some reading:
- The PowerShell help for [about_Debugger](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_debugger) (also available in your PowerShell sessions via `Get-Help about_Debuggers`, of course)
